🧠 What is Kubernetes?

Kubernetes (K8s) is an open-source container orchestration platform .It will help in 

🔹Deploy containers
🔹Manage containers
🔹Scale applications
🔹Monitor applications
🔹Recover failed containers automatically

It will do CA management, auto healing ,auto scaling, load balancing ,rolling updates (app updates vthout downtime)
(K8 will manages CA across automatically multiple m/c.
In docker every thing we need to do manually .but in k8  have auto healing, auto scaling, load balancing, multi node management, storage management etc.)


Companies use K8s for:

High availability
Automation
Easy scaling
Microservices
Cloud-native applications

Main Components of Kubernetes
1.Cluster
2.Node :🔹Master node
        🔹 Worker node
Master node : it controls and manages the entire K8 environment.
 
🔹Main Responsibilities
🔹Manages worker nodes
🔹Schedules pods
🔹Monitors cluster health
🔹Handles API requests
🔹Maintains desired state
🔹Performs auto healing.

🔹Worker Node :where application run's.

Note: Cluster group of nodes .1. If user created a request (like create nginx) then it will go API server .
                              2. API Server is the main entry point of Kubernetes.request valid and  Does user have permission then it will talk to ETCD and Scheduler.
                              3.ETCD  is Kubernetes database.It stores all cluster information.  Example data stored:Pod details , Node details , Deployment info ,Secrets , Configurations
                              4. Scheduler mean Which worker node should run the pod .suppose we have 3 worker nodes .then wjich worker node it should run it will decide .
                                Scheduler checks : CPU availability  , Memory , Free resources depending thise resources the nginx will run on worker nodes.
Simple flow:

User creates nginx
        ↓
API Server receives request
        ↓
API Server stores data in ETCD
        ↓
Scheduler selects worker node
        ↓
Kubelet creates pod
        ↓
Nginx container running 
